yes I'm free gone are my sponsor
obligations to Qualcomm about their new
Snapdragon X Elite chips I can say
everything I want and guys following our
lab running their most rigorous tests ho
what I want to say is damn these
processors are really good we got our
hands on two of the machines that are
supposed to de thrown AMD and Intel with
performance and efficiency that is
unheard of in a Windows laptop and while
they might not live up to every single
one of qualcomm's very bold claims
there's no denying both the sheer
efficiency and the shocking day one
completeness of the entire package kind
of like this complete intro now that
I've done the segue to our sponsor Odo
running a business is difficult
especially if you're jumping from app to
app just to complete one transaction
with odu's all-in-one software you can
save both time and money by streamlining
your processes click the link below to
learn more let's kick this off with a
fun little anecdote that qualcomm's
lawyers cut from our sponsored video for
some reason nearly 12 years ago I had my
first hands-on experience with Windows
on arm it could browse the web with
Internet Explorer navigate with Bing
Maps and even play video to say we've
come a long way would be a gross
understatement you were looking at
balers Gate 3 running on an AMD powered
system and on a Qualcomm system and
shockingly the results are nearly
identical so of course the first big
story here is performance the
conventional wisdom about arm-based
processors is that they are extremely
power efficient but that they fall
behind x86 chips when it comes to Raw
grunt well a few years ago that all fell
apart when a little known fruit company
out of copertino launched a processor
that made even hardcore Windows users
here in our office consider making the
switch it was a huge blow to Microsoft
and their Partners who were caught with
absolutely zero response to the Wombo
Combo of class leading performance and
unheard of battery life that is until
now cuz Windows just had its M moment
but no really like literally the man in
charge of Apple's a architecture and
presumably much of M was Gerard Williams
and after the fun design Des phase of
the M processors was over Gerard and a
couple of others left to form a company
called nuvia to make their own arm
server processors which was a pretty
good idea but then Qualcomm showed up
and offered them a cool 1.4 billion to
Pivot and build a mobile chip and a
couple of years later why don't we let
the battery life results tell you how
that went our Asus Vivo book S15 lasted
over 14 hours away from the wall with
our HP Omni book X able to crack 15
hours now you might be gearing up to get
very mad about how that is absolutely
nowhere near the numbers that Qualcomm
advertised but you've got to remember
that's in their tests and this is in
ours and for context a MacBook Pro M3
that we bought just this week with zero
battery degradation managed only 12
hours and 30 minutes in our test with
the rest of our laptops getting left in
the dust which brings us to a big
question how much a performance hit are
you willing to accept to get that kind
of battery life it's not like Windows on
arm is new and there's a reason that it
never got adopted well what if I told
you that things are different now and
the performance hit is virtually zero
along with our MacBook Pro M3 we also
tested a more price comparable MacBook
Air M2 and then representing x86 we've
got an Asus Zenbook with an Intel Core
Ultra 7 and we've got a framework 13
investment in framework disclosure with
an AMD ryzen 7 all of them linked down
below now we do wish that we had a more
current ryzen 8000 chip but those are
basically the same thing as ryzen 7000
but with some more AI bolted on but then
not enough AI to meet the minimum specs
of Microsoft's co-pilot plus program so
we think from a performance and battery
life standpoint using 7,000 series here
is fine in multicore workloads running
an application natively the Snapdragon X
Elite was able to beat literally
everything we put it up against even
Apple's M3 it's not a completely clean
win I mean the Snapdragon chips have 12
CPU cores in them versus just the eight
in Apple's M3 so that's going to be an
obvious advantage in multi-threaded
benchmarks and when we look at single
core performance apple is actually still
in the lead with Qualcomm barely besting
Intel and AMD but you've got to note
that it's possible Qualcomm still has
more in the single core tank currently
we've only got laptops with the X Elite
x1e 78-
100 chip going to hold back ranting
about how horrible that naming scheme is
for now but the important thing to take
away from here is that this is the
slowest variant of the ex Elite chip
which entirely lacks dual core boosting
and has the lowest multi-core speed so
instead of being stuck at 3.4 GHz the
faster ex Elite could go to 4.2 which
presumably would perform a fair bit
better with that said it's currently
very difficult to get reliable clock
speed and power info from these chips so
we just got to kind of guess what
exactly is going on under the hood what
we do know though is that we have
multiple performance profiles on the
Asus viab book S15 and we tested
everything at both 35 watts and 50 Watts
with multicore performance and cinch
increasing by
177% for that 43% increase in power
meaning that although more power does
mean they can go more faster there are
certainly diminishing returns after 35
Watts but of course this is workload
dependent and that's why handbrake is so
interesting in this Benchmark the
Snapdragon X Elite once again comes out
on top in both x264 and av1 encoding
which is great but doesn't paint the
whole picture for that we need to take
advantage of the fact that handbrake is
available in both arm native and x86 64
versions this allows us to look at the
performance hit from emulating a more
traditional laptop architecture and ooh
40% in both x264 and av1 that is a lot
more than the 10% figure that qualcom
was throwing around and the same goes
for blender where x86-64 emulation
caused a 26% hit to Performance with
that said though even with that
performance penalty the Snapdragon X
Elite was still able to hang with the
competition while leading the way when
we were running it natively
unfortunately that's kind of the end of
our productivity benchmark not because
there aren't plenty of other pieces of
software that ran but because getting
them to run across all of our platforms
under test in a repeatable manner was
kind of difficult to say the least with
that said in general our experience with
qualcomm's x86 emulation has been
largely okay I hate using this F word
but has been largely Flawless the
occasional installer would get mad but
once installed we had almost no problems
running even some kind of unexpected and
heavy programs like solid works there
are two situations though where you can
get caught out if an application
requires avx2 support it simply won't
open or if a game has kernel level
anti-che which brings us perfectly then
to gaming now the raw performance of the
Snapdragon chips very impressive
rivaling both AMD and Intel's integrated
Graphics when it works ah yes that's the
caveat because sometimes he know work
he's so good things do seem very early
days with some games running wonderfully
and some being a bit janky with others
just not launching at all because for
whatever reason qualcomm's igpu shows up
as having no vram that's a strange one
one thing that's promising though is
that there doesn't seem to be a
performance penalty going from direct
X11 to direct X12 something that's been
a huge thorn in Intel side with the
development of their Arc Alchemist gpus
now given that Intel has spent the last
2 years getting their driver situation
somewhat figured out for Arc it's
probably going to be quite some time
before we can recommend a Snapdragon X
Elite chip for gaming but if I get my
way the end goal here will be to have a
proper dedicated GPU in these things
anyway so that we can have our battery
life cake and also eat our gaming pie
finally let's talk about AI Microsoft
Qualcomm even your nan realist L won't
shut up lately about how AI is going to
revolutionize how you use your computer
but after a week of playing with these
machines
this is the number of times that we used
AI outside of explicitly testing it for
this video the auto presence detection
legitimately kind of cool but can also
end up being a bit distracting so we
ended up disabling it the paint
co-creator probably isn't going to be
much fun if you're older than about 10
and the we were most excited for live
captions with translation didn't really
live up to our expectations in our
testing it did a passable enough job
going from Mandarin to English but it
completely failed Cantonese French and
Hebrew so you might just want to stick
to a good old Google translate at least
for the time being also Microsoft's
controversial recall feature is
completely absent at this point which is
probably great because Microsoft clearly
has a lot of trust to build with the
community before they're going to allow
them to screenshot and key log
everything they do on their computers
the good news is that the benefits of
this platform are about more than just
co-pilot plus and one that I don't think
enough people are talking about is the
image quality advantage of the webcams
on Snapdragon X Elite laptops this isn't
just down to laptop manufacturers using
crappy webcams in their AMD and Intel
designs though it's because qualcomm's s
so includes a dedicated ated image
signal processor that's built right in
that conveniently allows laptop
manufacturers to use much better
smartphone targeted cameras that's why
it looks so much better overall though
AI aside guys this is an incredibly
strong start for Qualcomm Snapdragon X
processors we didn't get to test
everything so hit like if you guys want
to see Alex and I switched to these
laptops full-time for a month yeah a
month but after our initial test the
performance is good enough and the
battery life makes every other processor
company blush not only that but there's
a shocking lack of Jank for our first
gen product and with design wins from
nearly every Windows laptop maker and
not just yeah we shoved it in this weird
skew we know nobody's going to buy like
really good clean designs Qualcomm
clearly aren't the only ones that are
confident in these chips and I'm very
confident in this segue to our sponsor
odou if your business is super glued
together with a bunch of mismatched apps
oh don't let it go on that way o Do's
all-in-one business management software
lets you combine all of your apps into a
single unified operating system this not
only saves you the time and effort of
syncing everything up but also your
hard-earned money I mean think about it
how many $9.99 per month subscriptions
do you have right now and their list of
apps is super comprehensive so you're
bound to find something that suits your
business a CRM for the sales team
they've got got that a point of sale app
for your brick and mortar location
they've got that too how about an
appointments app to make sure that your
very busy boss goes from Shoot location
to shoot location without getting
sidetracked and wandering off come on
you guys anyway they have that too and
if you only need one single app to shore
up some holes in your processes guess
what you can get access to that for free
so go check out ODU using our Link in
the description for a free 14-day trial
or to set up a demo with their expert
team if you're interested in the AI bits
of these chips maybe you'd like to check
out the last video we did at computex
looking at the Snapdragon X noting of
course that those demos were curated and
run by qualcom themselves so they
represent a best case scenario